README.md, before:

# DSO API

A new generic API that exposes datasets.
It uses the "Amsterdam Schema" to define the datasets,
and exposes these in a DSO (Digitaal Stelsel Omgevingswet) compatible API.
Part of that means that the API follows the HAL-JSON style.

# Requirements

* Python >= 3.9
* Recommended: Docker/Docker Compose

# Installation

## Using Docker Compose (recommended for development)

Run docker compose:
```
    docker compose up
```

Navigate to `localhost:8090`.

By default a collection of example datasets is loaded, and a local database is setup and initialized.
This behaviour can be changed with environment variables as described below.

Running tests inside the container can be done as follows:
```
    docker compose exec web pytest <file/dir>
```

### Environment

The following environment variables are useful for configuring a local development environment.

* `DATABASE_URL`: the postgresql URL of the database the application should connect to.
    The default is the `database` container in the compose file.
* `INITIALIZE_DB`: Initialize the database with django migrate and import schema's. Default `true`.
* `MOCK_DATA`: Fill the initialized database with autogenerated mock data. Default: `false`.
* `SCHEMA_URL`: URL of the dataset schemas. To use the production schemas set this to:
    "https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/datasets/"
    Default is the `schemas` container in the compose file.
* `DATASETS_INCLUDE`: A comma separated lists of datasets to expose using the API or to generate mock data for.
    Default: `None` (expose all loaded datasets).
* `DATASETS_INCLUDE`: A comma separated lists of datasets to expose using the API or to generate mock data for.
    Default: `None` (expose all loaded datasets).

To connect to an authentication provider, set up the following environment variables:
* `OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`: The client id of the application
* `OAUTH_JWKS_URL`: The JWKS URL of the authentication provider.
* `OAUTH_URL`:  The auth URL of the authentication provider.

#### Example
A local setup using the production dataset schema's with mock data:
```
    export INITIALIZE_DB=true
    export MOCK_DATA=true
    export DATASETS_LIST=bag,gebieden,brk_2,sport,precariobelasting
    export SCHEMA_URL="https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/datasets/"
    docker compose up
```

### Debugging containerized code in VSCode
Run docker compose with the extra file.
```
    docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.debug.yml up -d
```

Start the debugger through the Run and Debug menu. The debugger is called "Python Debugger:
Remote Attach". You can now add breakpoints.

Note: this currently does not work with pytest in the container. It does work from the browser
or through `curl`.

## Without Docker Compose
See the instructions at: <https://dso-api.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howto/install.html>

These instructions can also be found in the ``dev-docs/source/howto/install.rst`` file.

# End User Documentation

See: <https://api.data.amsterdam.nl/v1/docs/> or the ``docs`` folder.

Commit message:

add example jsons plus explanation

README.md, after:

# DSO API

A new generic API that exposes datasets.
It uses the "Amsterdam Schema" to define the datasets,
and exposes these in a DSO (Digitaal Stelsel Omgevingswet) compatible API.
Part of that means that the API follows the HAL-JSON style.

# Requirements

* Python >= 3.9
* Recommended: Docker/Docker Compose

# Installation

## Using Docker Compose (recommended for development)

Run docker compose:
```
    docker compose up
```

Navigate to `localhost:8090`.

By default a collection of example datasets is loaded, and a local database is setup and initialized.
This behaviour can be changed with environment variables as described below.

Running tests inside the container can be done as follows:
```
    docker compose exec web pytest <file/dir>
```

### Environment

The following environment variables are useful for configuring a local development environment.

* `DATABASE_URL`: the postgresql URL of the database the application should connect to.
    The default is the `database` container in the compose file.
* `INITIALIZE_DB`: Initialize the database with django migrate and import schema's. Default `true`.
* `MOCK_DATA`: Fill the initialized database with autogenerated mock data. Default: `false`.
* `SCHEMA_URL`: URL of the dataset schemas. To use the production schemas set this to:
    "https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/datasets/"
    Default is the `schemas` container in the compose file.
* `DATASETS_INCLUDE`: A comma separated lists of datasets to expose using the API or to generate mock data for.
    Default: `None` (expose all loaded datasets).
* `DATASETS_INCLUDE`: A comma separated lists of datasets to expose using the API or to generate mock data for.
    Default: `None` (expose all loaded datasets).

To connect to an authentication provider, set up the following environment variables:
* `OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`: The client id of the application
* `OAUTH_JWKS_URL`: The JWKS URL of the authentication provider.
* `OAUTH_URL`:  The auth URL of the authentication provider.

#### Example
A local setup using the production dataset schema's with mock data:
```
    export INITIALIZE_DB=true
    export MOCK_DATA=true
    export DATASETS_LIST=bag,gebieden,brk_2,sport,precariobelasting
    export SCHEMA_URL="https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/datasets/"
    docker compose up
```

### Debugging containerized code in VSCode
Run docker compose with the extra file.
```
    docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.debug.yml up -d
```

In your `.vscode` folder, copy the `launch.example.json` to `launch.json` and the
`tasks.example.json` to `tasks.json`. Ensure that the paths are matching with what you
have (especially packages in your virtualenv).

Start the debugger through the Run and Debug menu. The debugger is called "Python Debugger:
Remote Attach". You can now add breakpoints.

Note: this currently does not work with pytest in the container. It does work from the browser
or through `curl`.

## Without Docker Compose
See the instructions at: <https://dso-api.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howto/install.html>

These instructions can also be found in the ``dev-docs/source/howto/install.rst`` file.

# End User Documentation

See: <https://api.data.amsterdam.nl/v1/docs/> or the ``docs`` folder.
