dev-docs/source/environment.rst, before:

.. highlight:: console

Environment Variables
=====================

The following environment variables can be configured to change the application behavior:

Disabling Automatic Model Creation
----------------------------------

.. _INITIALIZE_DYNAMIC_VIEWSETS:

In case the dynamic models+endpoints shouldn't be configured, pass ``INITIALIZE_DYNAMIC_VIEWSETS=0``.
This is enabled by default for ``manage.py showmigrations`` and ``manage.py migrate``::

    INITIALIZE_DYNAMIC_VIEWSETS = 0

Hosting Specific Datasets
-------------------------

.. _DATASETS_LIST:
.. _DATASETS_EXCLUDE:

By default, all datasets are hosted by the application.
When a custom instance is deployed for a particular dataset (e.g. the BRP),
this instance can host only a subset using::

    DATASETS_LISTS = ...
    DATASETS_EXCLUDE = ...

To expose only a subset of the datasets, use ``DATASETS_LIST``.
To expose all datasets with some exceptions, use ``DATASETS_EXCLUDE``.

Both entries accept a comma separated list, e.g. ``DATASETS_LISTS=bommen,gebieden,meldingen``.

.. warning::

    Relations and expanding logic are also affected when certain datasets are not loaded.

Logging
-------

By default, everything from the ``INFO`` log level and up are logged.
This can be changed using::

    DJANGO_LOG_LEVEL = ...
    DSO_API_LOG_LEVEL = ...
    DSO_API_AUDIT_LOG_LEVEL = ...


Dataset Schema Locations
------------------------

.. _SCHEMA_URL:
.. _PROFILES_URL:

The following variables define the locations for datasets::

    SCHEMA_URL = https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/datasets/    # Where schema's are loaded.
    PROFILES_URL = https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/profiles/  # Where auth-profiles are loaded.
    SCHEMA_DEFS_URL = https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/schema  # Prefix for meta schemas


Remote API Endpoints
--------------------

::

    # Haalcentraal
    HAAL_CENTRAAL_API_KEY = ...
    HC_KEYFILE = ...
    HC_CERTFILE = ...


Cloud environment
-----------------

Depending on where the DSO API is being run, it might need to perform additional configuration.

We support Azure logging and tracing when the ``CLOUD_ENV=azure`` setting is used.
When running in Azure two additional environment variables need to be
specified:

-  ``AZURE_APPI_INSTRUMENTATION_KEY``
-  ``AZURE_APPI_INGESTION_ENDPOINT``

This defines where Azure Application Insights
(`appi <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/azure-best-practices/resource-abbreviations>`_)
information should be sent to.

If ``CLOUD_ENV`` is not set is assumes its value to be a regular hosting provider.


Remaining Configuration
-----------------------

The following environment variables are also available,
but not further explained as these are typical settings for all Docker containers::

    # Hosting config
    DATAPUNT_API_URL = https://api.data.amsterdam.nl/           # Public endpoint
    ALLOWED_HOSTS = *

    # Flags & security
    DJANGO_DEBUG = 1
    SECRET_KEY = secret
    SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE=1   # default: not DEBUG
    CSRF_COOKIE_SECURE=1      # default: not DEBUG

    # Services
    DATABASE_URL = postgres://user:pass@host/dbname
    EMAIL_URL = smtp://
    SENTRY_DSN = https://....
    CACHE_URL = locmemcache://

    # Amsterdam oauth settings
    PUB_JWKS = ...
    KEYCLOAK_JWKS_URL = ...

Commit message:

Add missing logger and remove unnecessary handlers. (#277)
* Add missing logger and remove unnecessary handlers.

* Split Azure logs.

* Oh ah.

dev-docs/source/environment.rst, after:

.. highlight:: console

Environment Variables
=====================

The following environment variables can be configured to change the application behavior:

Disabling Automatic Model Creation
----------------------------------

.. _INITIALIZE_DYNAMIC_VIEWSETS:

In case the dynamic models+endpoints shouldn't be configured, pass ``INITIALIZE_DYNAMIC_VIEWSETS=0``.
This is enabled by default for ``manage.py showmigrations`` and ``manage.py migrate``::

    INITIALIZE_DYNAMIC_VIEWSETS = 0

Hosting Specific Datasets
-------------------------

.. _DATASETS_LIST:
.. _DATASETS_EXCLUDE:

By default, all datasets are hosted by the application.
When a custom instance is deployed for a particular dataset (e.g. the BRP),
this instance can host only a subset using::

    DATASETS_LISTS = ...
    DATASETS_EXCLUDE = ...

To expose only a subset of the datasets, use ``DATASETS_LIST``.
To expose all datasets with some exceptions, use ``DATASETS_EXCLUDE``.

Both entries accept a comma separated list, e.g. ``DATASETS_LISTS=bommen,gebieden,meldingen``.

.. warning::

    Relations and expanding logic are also affected when certain datasets are not loaded.

Logging
-------

By default, everything from the ``INFO`` log level and up are logged.
This can be changed using::

    DJANGO_LOG_LEVEL = ...
    DSO_API_LOG_LEVEL = ...
    DSO_API_AUDIT_LOG_LEVEL = ...


Dataset Schema Locations
------------------------

.. _SCHEMA_URL:
.. _PROFILES_URL:

The following variables define the locations for datasets::

    SCHEMA_URL = https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/datasets/    # Where schema's are loaded.
    PROFILES_URL = https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/profiles/  # Where auth-profiles are loaded.
    SCHEMA_DEFS_URL = https://schemas.data.amsterdam.nl/schema  # Prefix for meta schemas


Remote API Endpoints
--------------------

::

    # Haalcentraal
    HAAL_CENTRAAL_API_KEY = ...
    HC_KEYFILE = ...
    HC_CERTFILE = ...


Cloud environment
-----------------

Depending on where the DSO API is being run, it might need to perform additional configuration.

We support Azure logging and tracing when the ``CLOUD_ENV=azure`` setting is used.
When running in Azure two additional environment variables need to be
specified:

-  ``AZURE_APPI_CONNECTION_STRING``

This defines where Azure Application Insights
(`appi <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/azure-best-practices/resource-abbreviations>`_)
information should be sent to.

Optionally Audit logs can be sent to separate Azure Application Insights instance:

-  ``AZURE_APPI_AUDIT_CONNECTION_STRING``

This value defaults to ``AZURE_APPI_CONNECTION_STRING`` if not defined.


If ``CLOUD_ENV`` is not set is assumes its value to be a regular hosting provider.


Remaining Configuration
-----------------------

The following environment variables are also available,
but not further explained as these are typical settings for all Docker containers::

    # Hosting config
    DATAPUNT_API_URL = https://api.data.amsterdam.nl/           # Public endpoint
    ALLOWED_HOSTS = *

    # Flags & security
    DJANGO_DEBUG = 1
    SECRET_KEY = secret
    SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE=1   # default: not DEBUG
    CSRF_COOKIE_SECURE=1      # default: not DEBUG

    # Services
    DATABASE_URL = postgres://user:pass@host/dbname
    EMAIL_URL = smtp://
    SENTRY_DSN = https://....
    CACHE_URL = locmemcache://

    # Amsterdam oauth settings
    PUB_JWKS = ...
    KEYCLOAK_JWKS_URL = ...
