#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with python 3.9
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile --output-file=requirements.txt requirements.in
#
amsterdam-schema-tools[django]==5.1.5
    # via -r requirements.in
arrow==1.2.3
    # via isoduration
asgiref==3.5.2
    # via django
attrs==22.1.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   openapi-schema-validator
    #   pg-grant
    #   pytest
azure-core==1.26.0
    # via
    #   azure-identity
    #   opencensus-ext-azure
azure-identity==1.11.0
    # via opencensus-ext-azure
bandit==1.7.4
    # via -r requirements.in
cachetools==5.2.0
    # via google-auth
certifi==2022.9.24
    # via
    #   django-healthchecks
    #   requests
    #   sentry-sdk
cffi==1.15.1
    # via cryptography
charset-normalizer==2.1.1
    # via requests
click==8.1.3
    # via
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   mappyfile
    #   mercantile
coverage[toml]==6.5.0
    # via pytest-cov
cryptography==38.0.1
    # via
    #   azure-identity
    #   jwcrypto
    #   msal
    #   pyjwt
datapunt-authorization-django==1.3.3
    # via -r requirements.in
decorator==5.1.1
    # via jsonpath-rw
deepdiff==6.2.1
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via django-gisserver
deprecated==1.2.13
    # via jwcrypto
django==3.2.16
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   datapunt-authorization-django
    #   django-cors-headers
    #   django-gisserver
    #   django-healthchecks
    #   django-postgres-unlimited-varchar
    #   django-vectortiles
    #   djangorestframework
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   opencensus-ext-django
django-cors-headers==3.13.0
    # via -r requirements.in
django-db-comments==0.4.1
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
django-environ==0.9.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
django-gisserver==1.2.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
django-healthchecks==1.5.0
    # via -r requirements.in
django-postgres-unlimited-varchar==1.1.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
django-vectortiles==0.2.0
    # via -r requirements.in
djangorestframework==3.14.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   djangorestframework-csv
    #   djangorestframework-gis
    #   drf-spectacular
djangorestframework-csv==2.1.1
    # via -r requirements.in
djangorestframework-gis==1.0
    # via -r requirements.in
drf-spectacular==0.24.2
    # via -r requirements.in
factory-boy==3.2.1
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
faker==15.1.1
    # via factory-boy
flake8==5.0.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   flake8-colors
    #   flake8-debugger
    #   flake8-raise
flake8-blind-except==0.2.1
    # via -r requirements.in
flake8-colors==0.1.9
    # via -r requirements.in
flake8-debugger==4.1.2
    # via -r requirements.in
flake8-raise==0.0.5
    # via -r requirements.in
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
future==0.18.2
    # via mapbox-vector-tile
geoalchemy2==0.12.5
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
gitdb==4.0.9
    # via gitpython
gitpython==3.1.29
    # via bandit
google-api-core==2.10.2
    # via opencensus
google-auth==2.13.0
    # via google-api-core
googleapis-common-protos==1.56.4
    # via google-api-core
greenlet==1.1.3.post0
    # via sqlalchemy
idna==3.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
importlib-metadata==5.0.0
    # via markdown
importlib-resources==5.10.0
    # via openapi-spec-validator
inflection==0.5.1
    # via drf-spectacular
iniconfig==1.1.1
    # via pytest
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
json-encoder==0.4.4
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
jsonpath-rw==1.4.0
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
jsonpointer==2.3
    # via jsonschema
jsonref==0.2
    # via mappyfile
jsonschema[format]==4.16.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   jsonschema-spec
    #   mappyfile
    #   openapi-schema-validator
    #   openapi-spec-validator
jsonschema-spec==0.1.2
    # via openapi-spec-validator
jwcrypto==1.4.2
    # via datapunt-authorization-django
lark-parser==0.12.0
    # via mappyfile
lazy-object-proxy==1.7.1
    # via openapi-spec-validator
lru-dict==1.1.8
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   django-gisserver
mapbox-vector-tile==1.2.1
    # via -r requirements.in
mappyfile==0.9.7
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
markdown==3.4.1
    # via -r requirements.in
markupsafe==2.1.1
    # via jinja2
mccabe==0.7.0
    # via flake8
mercantile==1.2.1
    # via django-vectortiles
methodtools==0.4.5
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
more-ds==0.0.6
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
more-itertools==9.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
msal==1.20.0
    # via
    #   azure-identity
    #   msal-extensions
msal-extensions==1.0.0
    # via azure-identity
ndjson==0.3.1
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
openapi-schema-validator==0.3.4
    # via openapi-spec-validator
openapi-spec-validator==0.5.1
    # via -r requirements.in
opencensus==0.11.0
    # via
    #   opencensus-ext-azure
    #   opencensus-ext-django
    #   opencensus-ext-logging
opencensus-context==0.1.3
    # via opencensus
opencensus-ext-azure==1.1.7
    # via -r requirements.in
opencensus-ext-django==0.8.0
    # via -r requirements.in
opencensus-ext-logging==0.1.1
    # via -r requirements.in
ordered-set==4.1.0
    # via deepdiff
orjson==3.8.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   django-gisserver
packaging==21.3
    # via
    #   geoalchemy2
    #   pytest
pathable==0.4.3
    # via jsonschema-spec
pbr==5.11.0
    # via stevedore
pg-grant==0.3.2
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
pluggy==1.0.0
    # via pytest
ply==3.11
    # via jsonpath-rw
portalocker==2.6.0
    # via msal-extensions
protobuf==3.20.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   google-api-core
    #   googleapis-common-protos
    #   mapbox-vector-tile
psutil==5.9.3
    # via opencensus-ext-azure
psycopg2==2.9.5
    # via amsterdam-schema-tools
py==1.11.0
    # via pytest
pyasn1==0.4.8
    # via
    #   pyasn1-modules
    #   rsa
pyasn1-modules==0.2.8
    # via google-auth
pyclipper==1.3.0.post3
    # via mapbox-vector-tile
pycodestyle==2.9.1
    # via
    #   flake8
    #   flake8-debugger
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pyflakes==2.5.0
    # via flake8
pyjwt[crypto]==2.6.0
    # via msal
pyparsing==3.0.9
    # via packaging
pyrsistent==0.18.1
    # via jsonschema
pytest==7.1.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-django
pytest-cov==4.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
pytest-django==4.5.2
    # via -r requirements.in
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   arrow
    #   faker
python-owasp-zap-v2-4==0.0.20
    # via -r requirements.in
python-string-utils==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
pytz==2022.5
    # via
    #   django
    #   djangorestframework
pyyaml==6.0
    # via
    #   bandit
    #   drf-spectacular
    #   jsonschema-spec
    #   openapi-spec-validator
requests==2.28.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   azure-core
    #   datapunt-authorization-django
    #   django-healthchecks
    #   google-api-core
    #   msal
    #   opencensus-ext-azure
    #   python-owasp-zap-v2-4
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via jsonschema
rfc3987==1.3.8
    # via jsonschema
rsa==4.9
    # via google-auth
sentry-sdk==1.10.1
    # via -r requirements.in
shapely==1.8.0
    # via
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   mapbox-vector-tile
singledispatch==3.7.0
    # via json-encoder
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   azure-core
    #   azure-identity
    #   djangorestframework-csv
    #   google-auth
    #   json-encoder
    #   jsonpath-rw
    #   python-dateutil
    #   python-owasp-zap-v2-4
    #   rfc3339-validator
    #   singledispatch
    #   wirerope
smmap==5.0.0
    # via gitdb
sqlalchemy==1.4.42
    # via
    #   amsterdam-schema-tools
    #   geoalchemy2
sqlparse==0.4.3
    # via django
stevedore==4.1.0
    # via bandit
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   coverage
    #   pytest
typing-extensions==4.4.0
    # via
    #   azure-core
    #   jsonschema-spec
unicodecsv==0.14.1
    # via djangorestframework-csv
uri-template==1.2.0
    # via jsonschema
uritemplate==4.1.1
    # via drf-spectacular
urllib3==1.26.12
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   requests
    #   sentry-sdk
urllib3-mock==0.3.3
    # via -r requirements.in
webcolors==1.12
    # via jsonschema
wirerope==0.4.6
    # via methodtools
wrapt==1.14.1
    # via deprecated
zipp==3.10.0
    # via
    #   importlib-metadata
    #   importlib-resources

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
